


           +------------------------------------------------------+
           |                                                      |
           |       PACEDIT - The Terminal Pacity Level Editor     |
           |                     Version 1.00                     |
           |                                                      |
           |  Programmed and Designed by Alioth / Don Williamson  |
           |                                                      |
           |         Copyright (c) 1997 Don Williamson            |
           |                                                      |
           +------------------------------------------------------+


                          Level Designer's Manual

CONTENTS:

   1             Introduction

   2             The Level Concept

   3             Using the Editor

   4             Buttons

       4.1           Load Level
       4.2           Save Level
       4.3           New Level
       4.4           Grid On/Off
       4.5           Change Graphics Template
       4.6           Map Mode
       4.7           Change Current Screen
       4.8           Exit

   5             Squiggly Eyes



1. Introduction
==-----------==

Welcome to PacEdit. With this very program, you can expand Terminal Pacity
to be the game that YOU want it to be. With the editor it is possible to
create new levels, episodes, graphics and even monsters! To add to this,
unlike most game level editors, PacEdit is really easy to use. This leaves you
with the time to create some new and even crazier levels.

One of the reasons this level editor was made, was to prolong the life of
Terminal Pacity. However, a real bonus is that if you make a level - that
level is yours!!! Which means that if you want, you could plaster it all
over the internet. This is what I want to see; people producing levels and
sharing them with me and the rest of the world. To encourage this, you can
send me your levels and I'll stick them on my web page for all to see and
download.

Now, it's time to start making those levels...



2. The Level Concept
==----------------==

As you can see, the Terminal Pacity world is made up of a total of 100
screens (10 horizontal and 10 vertical). Each screen is split up into a number
of imaginary blocks and within these blocks, a certain obstacle, enemy, thing
or item of food can be placed. This explains why the levels in Terminal
Pacity have a uniform look to them. There are a total of 220 blocks per
screen (20 horizontal and 11 vertical).

Before progressing, it is required that you know the following:

  * Pac can only jump 3 blocks high.
  * The Squidges and similar acting enemies can only jump 3 blocks high.
  * Pac will eat through ANY blocks without a grey surrounding. Due to a
    last minute addition, he will also get stuck in them.
  * Any blocks placed in a screen other than your current screen, will NOT
    affect gameplay in the current screen.
  * Each level must consist of a level start and exit which you will see
    as soon as you start PacEdit. You cannot delete these in any way.
  * The structure of the enemies is completely different from that of Pac's,
    so if you place an enemy on a level in such a place that makes it possible
    for the enemy to go through walls - it will!

The collision detection in Terminal Pacity is based on pixel colour. From
my point of view this is not the best method (I could have used proper
collision detection but I wanted to finish the game in the shortest amount
of time). If Pac hits a grey pixel, he will cease to move in its direction.
This explains why it is essential to surround all your levels with the
grey floor!

| The collision detection HAS been updated slightly. Due to problems where
| Pac continuously fell through the ground, I opted for a mix between pixel
| colour and proper detection. The result is slow - but it works!

Lastly, each level is associated with what is called a 'Graphics Template'.
When you first load up PacEdit, the default template will be used - this
defines ALL of the sprites and blocks used in the game. Using Graphics
Templates makes it easy for you to edit the ingame graphics, you can even
change the look of the monsters! To play a level, you need to have the
Graphics Template File in the same directory as your level file.

If you want to distribute levels with alternate graphics, please make sure
you enclose the Graphics Template with them!!!


3. Using the Editor
==---------------==

PacEdit is almost entirely mouse controlled. This is to help people get the
most out the editor and make levels quick and easy to produce.

Along the bottom of the screen, you will see a scroll bar which contains all
the sprites used in the Terminal Pacity game, along with a series of buttons
which perform all manner of functions. Above this part of the screen, you
should see a gridded space - this is where the level you are currently
working on, is displayed.

Now, if you see a block or sprite on the scroll bar which you want to place
in the level, all you do is click on it and you should see a green arrow
point to it. The block is now selected, and to place it on-screen all you
do is left-click in the grid you want this block to be placed. There are
more than 6 blocks however. You can scroll through these with the buttons to
either side of the scroll bar.

To delete any block you've placed on the screen, just right click on it and
it should disappear.

You will notice that there are two blocks which cannot be deleted - these are
the image of Pac and an exit sign. These can, if selected in the scroll bar,
be moved all over the level. Pac's image specifies his start position.


4. Buttons
==------==

Now it's on to the buttons...


4.1. [ Load Level ]

This button has a capital 'L' imprinted on it. Once you click this, a load
requester will appear. If you change your mind and don't want to load a level,
just press the 'c' button. To scroll through the list of levels, press the
up and down arrows, and to select a level, just click on the name.


4.2. [ Save Level ]

This button has a capital 'S' imprinted on it. Once you click this, a save
requester will appear. On this, you will notice two fields. The first is
editable - the filename, while the second is just displayed - the Graphics
Template used. You can press escape to cancel the operation or just type
the name in there and then.


4.3. [ New Level ]

This button has a captial 'N' imprinted on it. It's use is pretty explanatory
really - start again, making a new level. Pac and the Level exit will be
reset to their original positions.


4.4. [ Grid On/Off ]

This button has two rectangles connected by two lines on it. You will see
that, for ease of use, PacEdit displays a grid on the editing area so you can
see where things are. However, since some of the grid lines could clash with
some of the colours, it might be difficult to see what the level really looks
like in the game. Clicking on this button will turn your grid either on or
off.


4.5. [ Change Graphics Template ]

This button has a picture of the original Pacman ghost on it. Pressing this
will bring up a requester for loading .GTF files (templates are given this
extension just incase you might load up a non-template .PCX file - the
results are... ...'interesting'). This requester works just like the load
requester.


4.6. [ Map Mode ]

This button has two rectangles on it; one is solid and the other is dashed.
Pressing this gives you a complete view of your level - one pixel represents
one block. The color representation is as follows...

   Red       -  Lava
   Orange    -  Entrance / Exit
   Yellow    -  Food
   Green     -  Enemies
   Blue      -  Water
   Grey      -  Normal blocks / Spikes / Doors

Click on the button again to return to editing mode.


4.7. [ Change Current Screen ]

As you know, the game world in Terminal Pacity consists of 100 screens. There
are four buttons to the right of the screen with solid arrows on them. By
pressing these, you can manipulate your way around the level.

4.8. [ Exit ]

This button is located at the bottom left of the screen and has the picture
of an open door on it. If you click this button, you will be asked to confirm
your decision to leave. However, if you wish to exit without this requestor,
just press 'Escape'.


5. Squiggly Eyes
==------------==

Notice that in PacEdit, when you try to delete a Squiggly Eye you've just
placed, a requestor with three buttons appears. These buttons are <DEL>,
<CON>, and <C>. As usual, if you press C, the operation is canceled leaving
everything unchanged. If you press DEL, the Squiggly Eye will be deleted
from the level. The other button however, stands for "Continue" - this button
brings up another requestor, with which, you can manipulate the movement of
the Squiggly Eye.

You will see on this requestor, six buttons and two fields with 0's in them.
The field on the left denotes how many blocks to the left the Squiggly Eye
will move. The field on the right deals with right movement. To alter these
values, all you do is press the up and down arrows that correspond to the
chosen direction. Press OK when you've finished.
